# Optimal-Sample-Selection-System
Extract a subset of samples from big data. Make sure that the subset of samples extracted or selected should be as fair and unbiased as possible and also as optimal as possible.
🔰 About: 
Optimal Sample Selection System aims to extract a subset of samples from a large dataset of m samples (45 ≤ m ≤ 54) in a fair and unbiased manner while also optimizing the selected subset for maximum effectiveness. The approach proposed involves selecting any n (7 ≤ n ≤ 25) samples out of the dataset and randomly selecting k=6 (4 ≤ k ≤ 7) samples from each of the nCk groups of k=6 samples. From these groups, we aim to optimize the selection by ensuring that at least one group of k samples has s (3 ≤ s ≤ 7) samples selected from the j (where s ≤ j ≤ k) samples.
⚡ Usage: 
 Installation
•	To use the Optimal Sample Selection System, just run the executable file(.exe file) from the project's GitHub repository and save it to your computer. No installation is necessary.
 Commands
•	To run the system, simply double-click the executable file to launch the GUI. You can also run the system from the command line using the following command:
python UI.py.
•	Once the application is launched, the user can input values for the parameters: m, n, k, j, and s. The user has the option to input their own value for "n" or have the system generate a random value. However, the user must input "k" before they can input "j". Furthermore, the user must input "j" before they can input "s", as "s" is bound with both parameters.
•	If users want to export the output results to an excel file, they need to modify a section of the UI.py code. The section that needs to be modified is the filepath variable, which needs to be changed to the file path specified by the user in their computer. The code that needs to be modified by the user is in the output_data() function, where filepath is set to "D:\MUST 2302学期\人工智能\Group Project(v1.0.6)\output.xlsx".
🔧 User Interface Development: 
 Input Parameters
•	The Optimal Sample Selection System provides the following five input parameters:
m：total samples (45≤m≤54)
n:  n samples out of total samples (7≤n≤25)
k：select k samples from one of the n samples groups (4≤k≤7)
j：j samples selected from the n samples (s≤j≤k)
s：s samples selected from the j samples (3≤s≤7)
Users can input the value of n manually or use the system to randomly generate it. The input field for j is disabled until the user inputs a value for k. Also, the input field for s is disabled until the user inputs a value for j. 
 Output boxes
•	The system provides two output boxes:
Sample Selection Output Box: displays the selected n samples from a total of m samples.
Final Sample Output Box: displays the final generated samples. 
  Clearing Inputs and Outputs
•	The Optimal Sample Selection System allows users to clear all input and output boxes on the UI. This is useful when the user wants to start fresh or make a new selection.
  Importing Input and Exporting Output
•	Users can search for previous user input and output records in an Excel file and choose to import input data and generate corresponding output results from the Excel file. This function provides a more convenient way of data management and use, which helps users improve efficiency and accuracy in data processing and analysis.

📁 File Structure: 
The Optimal Sample Selection System includes the following main and relevant files:
•	UI.py: This is the main file for running the application. It contains the user interface and imports algorithmtwo.py for the sample selection algorithm.
•	algorithmtwo.py: This file contains the implementation of the sample selection algorithm.
•	output.xlsx: This file is used to export the output results of the system. The selected samples will be saved in this file.
•	test_case.xlsx: This file is used to import the input parameters of the system. Users can add their own test cases to this file and import them into the system.
•	README.md: the project's README file containing the user guide
•	build/: the folder containing the files necessary for distribution
•	dist/: the folder containing the packaged distribution files
•	__pycache__/: the folder containing Python interpreter cache compiled results to speed up program execution

The file structure is detailed below:
.
Optimal-Sample-Selection-System/
├── build/
│   ├── ...
│   
├── dist/
│   ├── UI.exe
│   ├── 
│   
├── _pycache_/
│   ├── algorithmtwo.cpython-311.pyc
│   └── main.cpython-311.pyc
│   
├── UI.py
├── algorithmtwo.py
├── output.xlsx
├── test_case.xlsx
│   
└── README.md
The "build/" and "dist/" directories are generated by Python packaging tools and contain files needed for distribution.
The "pycache/" directory contains compiled results cached by the Python interpreter to improve program execution speed.
"UI.py" and "algorithmtwo.py" are two Python script files that respectively implement the UI interface and algorithm logic.
"output.xlsx" is the output file exported after running the program, while "test_case.xlsx" is a test case file for importing input parameters.
"README.md" is the project's documentation file.
🌸 Contribution
Contributions to the Optimal Sample Selection System are welcomed and appreciated. Users can fork the project on GitHub and submit pull requests for new features or bug fixes.
📄 Resources
The Optimal Sample Selection System is built using Python and the tkinter library. The system also utilizes Openpyxl for Excel file input and output.

📷 Gallery
 
Figure 1. User Interface Column Introduction
Users should first input the values of the five parameters using the drop-down menus provided in the input fields. It is recommended that users enter the value of k first before proceeding to input the values of j and s. Users can also click on Import Excel Data button to directly load the data to all input fields. 

 
                        Figure 2. Valid and Invalid Output Display
After entering all the input values, users can view the output result in the two output boxes. The second output box not only contains the samples result but also contains the number of generated samples and the algorithm running time. 
Once all input values have been entered, the user can click on the "Enter Data" button and then the "Click to Generate Output" button to generate the final results. If any input values are missing, a prompt window will be displayed to remind the user to enter all input values.
 
Figure 3. Excel File to document all the history output results
Users can view all the history output results in the database file(excel file). 

❓ FAQ
(1): What is the Optimal Sample Selection System?
The Optimal Sample Selection System is a software tool that allows users to select the best sample from a set of samples based on certain parameters, such as the size of the sample and the desired statistical characteristics
(2): What file formats does the system support for input and output?
The Optimal Sample Selection System supports Excel files (.xlsx) for input and output. You can import your input parameters from an Excel file, and export your output results to a separate Excel file. 
(3): Can I customize the statistical methods used by the system?
Yes, you can customize the statistical methods used by the system by modifying the code in the "algorithmtwo.py" file. However, this requires some knowledge of Python programming and statistical methods
